#summary description of couchDB's structure
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Design

= Introduction =

This page contains information about the structure of databases used to stored emails by REmail.
This *is not* an help on how to set-up couchdb on your machine, if is that what you're looking for you should refer to [CouchDBinstallation]. 


= Overview =

We use couchDB to store emails relative to different mailing-lists.
We create a different database for each mailing-list.

== Databases ==

The database's name is created based on the name of the mailing-list.
Since couchDB allows only certain characters for the database's names, we replace _@_ with _-_ and _._ with _`_`_. Moreover we add at the beginning of the name the string _at(remail)_ to identify that this database is actually a database used by REmail.

For example the list _your.maillist@mailman.org_ will be stored as _at(remail)your`_`maillist-maiman`_`org_.

== Documents ==
In each database there are 3 kind of documents used to stored the data:
  # *Design* documents
  # Documents storing *process information*
  # Documents storing *email*

=== Design documents ===
Design documents are used by couchDB to make queries to the database (called _views_). 
A design document can be identified by it's id beginning with the prefix _`_`design/_.
Our views have ids in the form _`_`design/method-class_. Where:
  * method is the search method used
  * class is the class we want to search  

=== Documents storing process information ===
This kind of documents are used by REmail to store information needed by the process used to retrieve emails from different sources.
They are:
  * *lastEmail* is the id of the document storing the identifier of the last mail inserted in the database
  * *_design/keyview*, even if it is actually a Design Document, it's more suitable to be here since it is used to provide all the document's keys stored in the database.  

=== Documents storing email ===
Documents which are not part of the two categories above! They can be recognized by an unique randomly generated id.
They have the following fields:
  * *key*, is used as an identifier, can be the date of the mail or a permalink to it.
  * *headers*, is used to store the headers of the mail, the format in which they are stored is a json array.
  * *body*, is the content of the email