#summary Information on how to create databases for REmail
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

After having completed the installation of couchDB, you'll want to create databases and populate them with datas.
This page contains the information you need to do this! 


= Mail from the Past =

This section describe how to import emails of your mailing-list, which have been sent before you installed REmail and are archived somewhere. 

You have two opportunities to do this:
  * import form an *Mbox* file
  * fetch emails form *MarkMail*


== Import from Mbox files ==

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbox Mbox] is a generic file format used by most mailing-list archive to store emails.
If you have such a file and want to import in a database for REmail, you can use the python script _ConvertFromMBOX.py_, which you should find in the REmail archive you've downloaded.
To use the script, open a terminal, move to the directory the file is and run the following command:
{{{
$ python ConvertFromMBOX.py <mbox-file> <server-address> <database-name> 
}}}
where:
  * _<mbox-file>_ is the path to the Mbox file you want to import
  * _<server-address>_ is the address of the server running couchDB, the default is _"http://localhost:5984/"_
  * _<database-name>_ is the name you want to give to your database


== Fetch from MarkMail ==

[http://markmail.org/ MarkMail] is a web server providing access to various mailing-lists. If MarkMail has the email of your mailing-list in it's database, probably this is the best method to use.
To fetch mails from MarkMail you can use the script _FetcherThread.py_, which you should find in the REmail archive you've downloaded.
To use the script, open a terminal, move to the directory the file is and run the following command:
{{{
$ python FetcherThread.py <mailing-list-name> <server-address>
}}}
where:
 * _<mailing-list-name>_ is the name of the mailing list you want to import
 * _<server-address>_ is the address of the server running couchDB, the default is _"http://localhost:5984/"


= Mail from the Present =

This section describe how to update you databases inserting newly arrived emails of your mailing-list.
For this you need a configuration file, see the ConfigurationFileHelp, and an email account which is subscribed to the mailing-list you want to keep update.

The email account must support POP connection to retrieve email. REmail will download *only* the emails relative to the given mailing-lists, leaving them on the server. Of course you *shouldn't delete* the emails before REmail checks for them. 

== Manual ==

You can manually download emails from your mail account and stores int he server by running the python script _POPclient.py_, which you should find in the REmail archive you've downloaded.
To do this, open a terminal, move to the directory the file is and run the following command:
{{{
$ python POPclient.py
}}}

== Automatic ==

Since manual updates are boring we have provided a bash scripts that automatically does it for you. You can find the scripts in the REmail archive you've downloaded.
The scripts are:
  * *REmailFetchDaemon.sh* to run the daemon
  * *REmailKillDaemon.sh* to stop the daemon

You can run them with the following commands:
{{{
$ ./REmailFetchDaemon.sh
$ ./REmailKillDaemon.sh
}}}

Anyway,we suggest to add _REmailFetchDaemon.sh_ to the list of programs automatically running at your system starts-up.